README.md, before:

# KAMI

![Kami Logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56773311/177063954-21ca2de8-d7cc-4480-b396-b52726242511.png)

Kami is a machine-first human-also-first markup language, designed not for human readability, but for usability as an intermediary between our design desires and a machine's logic. Kami takes inspiration from Pandoc's Markdown flavor, and Textile, the latter of which is my favorite markup language. Its name stands for Katie Ampersand's Markup Instrument. I chose Instrument and not Language just becaues KAMI is a very cute acronym.

Kami files should use the `.km` extension, as in `file.km`.

## Usage (In A Rust Crate)

The only public method is `syntax::parse()`, which takes in a string of characters and outputs an HTML string.

```rust
use kami_parser::syntax;

fn main() {
	println!("{}", syntax::parse("*bold text*")); // <b >bold text</b>
}
```

## Philosophy

Seeing the similarities between Markdown and Kami, you might wonder why I'd bother making this. The reason is simple: Markdown is too human-centric. Of course, there is no one Markdown flavor, but the ones I've seen just focus too much on being something you can guess and read, and not something you can use. It's not necessarily a bad goal, but it's not one that works well with the way I like my things to function, as I've found it too limiting.

Kami is designed under the idea that markup languages are not like programming languages in the ways that they achieve their goals. A programming language is designed for humans, if it was more machine-centric you'd obtain an assembly language, or something closer to it. A markup language should be somewhere in the middle. HTML sucks to use because of how machine-centric it is, but Markdown or Textile can be limiting because they focus too much on human readability and use-cases. In a world of these extremes, Kami tries to stand in the middle.

(This also leads me to wonder what something more in the middle of programming langauges and assembly code would look like)

Human readability is still a goal, but it's a goal that should never limit what can be done. Kami is strictly an intermediate between thoughts and HTML, and is not meant to be read by anyone, which, to me, is what markup languages should strive for.

Kami is ultimately meant to fulfill my needs, it is what I want out of a Markup language, and while it tries to be for general use, it doesn't always care if it isn't. It might be worse for _your_ specific goals, and that's okay. That's why there's so many markup languages - I'm simply not the first one to be dissatisfied with what already exists.

## Specification

### Bold italians and strong empaths (Bold, Italic, Strong and Emphasis)

Kami distinguishes Bold from Strong and Italic from Emphasis. This is because screen readers care about the distinction. Bold is surrounded with asterisks (`*`) and Italics are surrounded by underscores (`_`). Strong and emphasis are the same, just doubled (`**` and `__`). I used to struggle remembering this (Textile does it), so I came up with the mnemonic you see in the title of this section. I just memorized it along with this sequence `* _ ** __`. Hopefully that can help you too.

### Subscript and Superscript

Subscript is surrounded with `~` and superscript is surrounded with a `^`. They _can_ contain spaces.

### Underline and Strikethrough

Strikethrough text is surrounded by dashes (`-`) and underlined text is surrounded by double dashes (`-`). This syntax is subject to change because I think it sucks.

### Hyperlinks

Hyperlinks use markdown format: `[Visible text](destination)`. The visible text part can contain any other inline tokens (like bold or images)

### Images

Images are surrounded with exclamation marks, like this: `!example.png`.

To give them a hyperlink, simply put them in a Kami hyperlink like this: `[!img.png!](example.net)`

And to give them an alt text, simply give them an attribute: `!img.png!{alt="A monkey eating a burrito as the sun illuminates them, making them look angelic"}`

### Spans

Spans are to be surrounded with at signs (`@`).

### Inline Code

Inline code is to be surrounded with backticks, as is done in Markdown.

### Headers

Headers are done the same way as in Markdown, with sequences of hashtags (`#`).

### Lists

Unordered lists are marked with a `* ` at the beginning of a paragraph. The space after the asterisk is important, and is part of the token. Ordered lists are marked with a `#. ` at the beginning of the paragraph. The space after the dot is part of the token.

To nest lists inside each other, simply add more asterisks or hashtags, for example:

```
* Main list element
** Sublist element
```

### Attributes

Everything mentioned here can have id, class, and any HTML attribute you might care about. Simply do this `{#id .class1 .class2 attribute="value"}` after the affected part, without a space in between. Note that tokens that have spaces as their last character (like in the case of lists) _don't_ get that space removed. They keep that space.

For example, `**text**{#hey}` would be parsed into `<strong id="hey">text</strong>`, and `[link](ampersandia.net){rel="me"}` would be parsed into `<a href="ampersandia.net" rel="me">link</a>`.

To give attributes to a paragraph simply start the paragraph with an attribute sequence.

To give attributes to format blocks (like the `<ul> <ol>` parts of lists) just put an attribute sequence before any of the elements of the block, like this:


```
{#id .class)
* list element
```

### Inline HTML

Inline HTML is done simply by writing HTML in the file. If a line starts with an HTML tag, the line will _not_ be treated as a paragraph (it won't be surrounded by the HTML `<p>` tag). If you want it to be surrounded, just add an empty attribute sequence at the beginning of the line.

To make a line not be treated as a paragraph even if it won't have HTML tags, just make it start with a `<>`.

```
<title></title>
{} <iframe>
<> text
```

Would be parsed into

```
<title></title>
<p><iframe></p>
text
```

### Escaping

Every token can be escaped with backslashes. Backslashes can be escaped, too. Escaping will make it so that the parser interprets a character as being just a character, and not a token.

Commit message:

Fixed nested lists more than two levels deep

README.md, after:

# KAMI

![Kami Logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56773311/177063954-21ca2de8-d7cc-4480-b396-b52726242511.png)

Kami is a machine-first human-also-first markup language, designed not for human readability, but for usability as an intermediary between our design desires and a machine's logic. Kami takes inspiration from Pandoc's Markdown flavor, and Textile, the latter of which is my favorite markup language. Its name stands for Katie Ampersand's Markup Instrument. I chose Instrument and not Language just becaues KAMI is a very cute acronym.

Kami files should use the `.km` extension, as in `file.km`.

## Usage (In A Rust Crate)

The only public method is `syntax::parse()`, which takes in a string of characters and outputs an HTML string.

```rust
use kami_parser::syntax;

fn main() {
	println!("{}", syntax::parse("*bold text*")); // <b >bold text</b>
}
```

## Philosophy

Seeing the similarities between Markdown and Kami, you might wonder why I'd bother making this. The reason is simple: Markdown is too human-centric. Of course, there is no one Markdown flavor, but the ones I've seen just focus too much on being something you can guess and read, and not something you can use. It's not necessarily a bad goal, but it's not one that works well with the way I like my things to function, as I've found it too limiting.

Kami is designed under the idea that markup languages are not like programming languages in the ways that they achieve their goals. A programming language is designed for humans, if it was more machine-centric you'd obtain an assembly language, or something closer to it. A markup language should be somewhere in the middle. HTML sucks to use because of how machine-centric it is, but Markdown or Textile can be limiting because they focus too much on human readability and use-cases. In a world of these extremes, Kami tries to stand in the middle.

(This also leads me to wonder what something more in the middle of programming langauges and assembly code would look like)

Human readability is still a goal, but it's a goal that should never limit what can be done. Kami is strictly an intermediate between thoughts and HTML, and is not meant to be read by anyone, which, to me, is what markup languages should strive for.

Kami is ultimately meant to fulfill my needs, it is what I want out of a Markup language, and while it tries to be for general use, it doesn't always care if it isn't. It might be worse for _your_ specific goals, and that's okay. That's why there's so many markup languages - I'm simply not the first one to be dissatisfied with what already exists.

## Specification

### Bold italians and strong empaths (Bold, Italic, Strong and Emphasis)

Kami distinguishes Bold from Strong and Italic from Emphasis. This is because screen readers care about the distinction. Bold is surrounded with asterisks (`*`) and Italics are surrounded by underscores (`_`). Strong and emphasis are the same, just doubled (`**` and `__`). I used to struggle remembering this (Textile does it), so I came up with the mnemonic you see in the title of this section. I just memorized it along with this sequence `* _ ** __`. Hopefully that can help you too.

### Subscript and Superscript

Subscript is surrounded with `~` and superscript is surrounded with a `^`. They _can_ contain spaces.

### Underline and Strikethrough

Strikethrough text is surrounded by dashes (`-`) and underlined text is surrounded by double dashes (`-`). This syntax is subject to change because I think it sucks.

### Hyperlinks

Hyperlinks use markdown format: `[Visible text](destination)`. The visible text part can contain any other inline tokens (like bold or images)

### Images

Images are surrounded with exclamation marks, like this: `!example.png`.

To give them a hyperlink, simply put them in a Kami hyperlink like this: `[!img.png!](example.net)`

And to give them an alt text, simply give them an attribute: `!img.png!{alt="A monkey eating a burrito as the sun illuminates them, making them look angelic"}`

### Spans

Spans are to be surrounded with at signs (`@`).

### Inline Code

Inline code is to be surrounded with backticks, as is done in Markdown.

### Headers

Headers are done the same way as in Markdown, with sequences of hashtags (`#`).

### Lists

Unordered lists are marked with a `* ` at the beginning of a paragraph. The space after the asterisk is important, and is part of the token. Ordered lists are marked with a `#. ` at the beginning of the paragraph. The space after the dot is part of the token.

To nest lists inside each other, simply add more asterisks or hashtags, for example:

```
* Main list element
** Sublist element
```

Lists can be arbitrarily nested, which means you can nest an ordered list inside an unordered list and vice versa, in whatever configuration you wish, as many times as you wish.

### Attributes

Everything mentioned here can have id, class, and any HTML attribute you might care about. Simply do this `{#id .class1 .class2 attribute="value"}` after the affected part, without a space in between. Note that tokens that have spaces as their last character (like in the case of lists) _don't_ get that space removed. They keep that space.

For example, `**text**{#hey}` would be parsed into `<strong id="hey">text</strong>`, and `[link](ampersandia.net){rel="me"}` would be parsed into `<a href="ampersandia.net" rel="me">link</a>`.

To give attributes to a paragraph simply start the paragraph with an attribute sequence.

To give attributes to format blocks (like the `<ul> <ol>` parts of lists) just put an attribute sequence before any of the elements of the block, like this:


```
{#id .class)
* list element
```

### Inline HTML

Inline HTML is done simply by writing HTML in the file. If a line starts with an HTML tag, the line will _not_ be treated as a paragraph (it won't be surrounded by the HTML `<p>` tag). If you want it to be surrounded, just add an empty attribute sequence at the beginning of the line.

To make a line not be treated as a paragraph even if it won't have HTML tags, just make it start with a `<>`.

```
<title></title>
{} <iframe>
<> text
```

Would be parsed into

```
<title></title>
<p><iframe></p>
text
```

### Escaping

Every token can be escaped with backslashes. Backslashes can be escaped, too. Escaping will make it so that the parser interprets a character as being just a character, and not a token.
